Polpette di pollo
MINI CHICKEN MEATBALLS

Ingredients

300	g	cooked chicken
3	slices of	brown bread	, crusts removed (plus extra breadcrumbs if needed)
50	ml	milk
50	g	olives
2	tablespoons	capers	, drained
1	clove of	garlic	, peeled
4	tablespoons	grated Parmesan
1	large	free-range egg
olive oil
1	handful of	fresh flat-leaf parsley	, chopped to serve
Tomato sugo:
2	tablespoons	olive oil
3	cloves of	garlic	, peeled and crushed
2 x 400	g tins of	chopped tomatoes
½ teaspoon	sugar	, optional

Method

Recipe by the Chiappa sisters

In this recipe we serve the polpette hot with a tasty tomato sugo (sauce), but they’re also delicious eaten cold with a green salad and some chilli jam. The polpette freeze well, too – great for throwing together a meal when you’re short on time.

Preheat the oven to 180°C/gas 4. Using a large knife, roughly chop up the chicken, giving it some texture, then set aside. Roughly break up the bread into a bowl and pour over the milk, tossing it together, and set aside until the milk is absorbed. 

Put the soaked bread, olives, capers, garlic and parmesan in a blender and blitz until combined. Add the chicken and break in the egg, then pulse very briefly, until the mixture is blended enough to be moulded into balls but is still a little chunky. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Roll the mixture into small balls about 2.5cm wide (if the mixture is a little too wet to work with, add some extra breadcrumbs until it comes together). 

Place the meatballs in a greased ovenproof dish. Drizzle generously with oil and bake in the oven for 30 minutes, turning the balls halfway so they’re golden on all sides.

While the meatballs are cooking, make your sugo. Heat the olive oil in a large frying pan over a medium heat, add the garlic and cook for approximately 3 minutes, until softened but not coloured. Tip in the tinned tomatoes, then fill the empty tin a third of the way with water and add this as well. Cook over a high heat for 8–10 minutes, stirring occasionally, until the sauce has reduced and thickened. If your tomatoes taste slightly acidic, stir in the sugar to sweeten. Season with salt and pepper.

Add the sauce to the dish 5-10 minutes before the meatballs have finished cooking. Serve with some parsley scattered on top.
